They imagined I have this sentence here that says if amount is equal to a thousand, then you are wealthy
else, you aren't getting by just fine.
The idea is I want to transform this sentence here into a branch of computer programming.
I want to compare in number if the number is equal to thousand.
Then I want to print something.
I say you're wealthy.
If that number is not equal to a thousand, when I say you are getting by, just fine.
How do we do that?
Well, the idea of branching is very interesting.
There is another variable that we haven't talked about.
This variable is called a bullion.
A bullion is just like a bit right in that it holds either true or false.
And when we talk about conditions and when we talk about a branching that is the center of everything
because we are comparing two things or more things and then hoping for a result, right?
And the result is either going to be true or false.
Right.
You either have a thousand dollars or not.
Of course, there's some other intricacies in between, of course, but the basis of everything here
is that we have to have this condition in order to have a condition we are expecting to have a result
of.
This result is indeed a bullion white.
That's what's going to regulate this condition.
So in codling, we can say if, write, hit, enter and then we have the parentheses inside here will
could pass in an expression.
So instead of this parentheses, we're going to add the condition if what then to what?
That's where the condition goes.
So when I say if amount is equal, how do we say equal while equal, we use double equal sign to say
equal right amount is equal to a thousand.
Now we have a problem here, but we'll fix that.
Then we're going to run a certain code block.
So we put inside of curly braces like that.
So if this expression here returns true, then whatever it's inside here will run and then we can say
else that create another block.
This will run.
Let's create this amount of value so we can drive everything.
So say amount is equal to 900.
OK, so inside here I'm going to say print, you are getting by else and I say print.
Actually, I'm sorry this goes down here.
I just put it there.
And then here and then say, Print, you are wealthy.
OK, let's go ahead and run and see, and you can see you're getting by.
Why is that?
Well, the reason being is because the amount of value is not high, so it's not equal to a thousand.
It's less in this case than 100.
OK.
So that's why print you are getting by, it's going to run.
This is never run high.
So we branched now.
If statement we were able to branch to make sure that one thing runs, if it's true, if it's false,
that thing does run, we branch out to another statement.
This is a very simple example, but it is a very crucial.
And one of the most basics of computer science of programs in general, because all we're doing, we're
comparing data in this case.
What is data?
This is our data.
900.
The amount is data we're comparing.
OK, if amount is equal to a thousand this case, this is very simplistic, of course, then you are
wealthy.
If that's not true, then this happened.
Right now, I can go further to say before this &lsquo, this is the last resort.
I can also add here and else, if such if amount is greater than or equal to 1000, this is when I'm
going to say print.
Wow, you are very wealthy.
This one this what do you think is going to happen?
Obviously, the same thing's going to happen because you are getting by.
It's a 900 now.
If I say 1000.
It's saying, here you're wealthy.
Why?
Because the first if statement was safe, amount is equal to 1000.
It's going to say you're wealthy.
This amount here 1000, it's only equal to 1000.
It's not greater than or equal to.
That's why this never runs doesn't make sense.
So in this case here, we want to always to see this running.
That means they will have to change the logic here.
So going to just get rid of all of this altogether, because that's not needed because they will cover
both a person who has 1000 or and a person who has over 1000.
Right.
So that will cover what we want.
So now if I write this, we should see, Wow, you're very wealthy.
All right.
Now, if you want to create a more branched tree, here we can use the when expression.
OK, so I can say something like this when and then I'm going to pass the value that's going to be controlling
this entire condition, right?
Which is amount.
So now we can say here, if a mount, for instance, is $1, you know, we have a breath of conditions
that we can catch.
We can even say if it's 100, the amount that is past, it's 100.
We can say dash great and sign like there's an arrow, right?
When, say, print, you have 100.
I can continue if it's one.
Or I can even say 125 and say, print, you are getting there, right?
I can continue for many, many, many other numbers so I can catch in this case when we use the one
expression, we have this possibility of catching many different cases, right?
So I can even go 999 print really close.
And then I'm going to say a thousand print rich, but not there and anything over.
Let's say something like that.
I say print, you've made it.
And here I can say else in, you know, the case I can just say, can pass here an expression.
If we wanted to also say print can say amount, right and put that same amount.
It's just not going to work something like that.
OK.
So this is just an example to show you that when we use the when expression, we can catch more conditions
here.
So if the amount is 100.
This will print it down to five.
This will print nine hundred ninety nine.
This will print and so forth.
You comment this out, you know it's going Randy's going to see rich, but not there because of course,
we have one thousand and one thousand.
It's this one is going to say which we're not there.
All right.
So this is the beginning of an amazing journey when it comes to programming, because then you will
see you have a lot of options, a lot of things you can do to create this branching right using an if
statement.
And of course, in this case, also when expression here.
OK, so what I want to do is to play around with this concept.
Think, for instance, of an expression that you want to branch, right?
So let's say if age is ten years old, you want to print X.
If ages 12, you want to print Y and so forth so you can get used to using when.
And of course, the if expression as well.